feat(aigw): AI Custom Guardrail Policy overview migrate (#5781)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_ai_gateway_policies/ai-custom-guardrail/index.md

---

The AI Custom Guardrail Policy enforces introspection on both inbound requests and outbound responses handled by the [AI Model](/ai-gateway/entities/ai-model/) entity. It can integrate with any HTTP-based guardrail service. This ensures all data exchanged between clients and upstream LLMs adheres to the configured security standards.

## How it works

The AI Custom Guardrail Policy can be applied to:
* Input data (requests)
* Output data (responses)
* Both input and output data

Here's how it works if you apply it to both requests and responses:

1. The AI Custom Guardrail Policy intercepts the request and sends the request body to the guardrail service.
   1. The guardrail service analyzes the request against configured moderation categories and allows or blocks the request.
1. If allowed, the request is forwarded upstream with the AI Model entity.
1. On the way back, the Policy intercepts the response and sends the response body to the guardrail service.
   1. The guardrail service analyzes the response against configured moderation categories and allows or blocks the response.
1. If allowed, the response is forwarded to the client.

<!-- vale off -->
{% mermaid %}

> sequenceDiagram
>   autonumber
>   participant client as Client
>   participant custguardrail as AI Custom Guardrail Policy
>   participant guardrail as Guardrail service
>   participant proxy as AI Proxy/Advanced plugin
>   participant llm as Upstream AI service
> 
>   client->>custguardrail:Send request
>   custguardrail<<->>guardrail:Intercept & send request body
>   guardrail->>guardrail:Check against moderation <br>categories and blocklists
>   guardrail->>custguardrail: Allow or block request
>   custguardrail->>proxy: Forward allowed request
>   proxy->>llm: Process allowed request
>   llm->>proxy: Return AI response
>   proxy->>custguardrail: Forward response
>   custguardrail->>guardrail: Intercept & send response body
>   guardrail->>guardrail: Check against moderation <br>categories and blocklists
>   guardrail->>custguardrail: Allow or block response
>   custguardrail->>client: Forward allowed response

Author: This is pending Greg's feedback! 
```suggestion
sequenceDiagram
  autonumber
  participant Client
  participant Gateway as {{site.ai_gateway}}
  participant Policy as AI Custom Guardrail Policy
  participant Guardrail as Guardrail service
  participant AI as Upstream AI Service

  Client->>Gateway: Send request
  Gateway->>Policy: Route request
  Policy->>Guardrail: Intercept & send request body
  Guardrail->>Guardrail: Check against moderation <br>categories and blocklists
  Guardrail->>Policy: Allow or block request
  Policy->>Gateway: Forward allowed request
  Gateway->>AI: Process allowed request
  AI->>Gateway: Return AI response
  Gateway->>Policy: Forward response
  Policy->>Guardrail: Intercept & send response body
  Guardrail->>Guardrail: Check against moderation <br>categories and blocklists
  Guardrail->>Policy: Allow or block response
  Policy->>Gateway: Forward allowed response
  Gateway->>Client: Forward allowed response to client
```
